.\" Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\" 
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.TH "AMPACHE" "1" "December 27, 2008" "Karl Vollmer" "Sound"
.SH "NAME"
Ampache \- is a Web\-based Audio file manager. 
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

Ampache is implemented with MySQL, and PHP. It allows you to view, edit, and
play your audio files via the web. It has support for playlists, artist and album
views, album art, random play, playback via Http, on the Fly Transcoding and
Downsampling, Vote based playback, Mpd and Icecast, Integrated Flash Player, as
well as per user themes and song play tracking. You can also Link multiple Ampache
servers together using XML\-RPC. Ampache supports GETTEXT translations and has a
full translation of many languages.

.SH "OPTIONS"

The following php scripts are included in Ampache and can be used to automate some
aspects of Ampache.

catalog_update.inc

You can automate the update of all, or some of your local catalogs by using the
bin/catalog_update.inc file. By default this will run a clean, verify and update
on all of your local catalogs.  You can optionally specify the name of the catalog
and it will only update the specified catalog.  Very useful when used with cron or
crontab.

dump_art.inc

You can output all of the album art stored in ampache to the filesystem. It will
output the image stored in the database to the directory of the first file in the
album. This can cause problems f your files are not in their own directories. You
can specify the filename to be written by modifying the config file options
relating to album_art_preferred_filename. Ampache will by default output meta
data directory files for linux.

delete_disabled.inc

If you would like to delete all of the disabled songs in Ampache you can run the
bin/delete_disabled.inc to delete all of the songs that are disabled in Ampache.
Naturally this requires the user you run the script as to have permissions to
delete the files in question. By default this script will not work if you run
it. You must open it and delete or comment out the line that says $debug=true
for it to actually work.

sort_files.inc

You can have Ampache automatically rename and move all of your files based
on the meta data in Ampache using the bin/sort_files.inc script. This requires
write access to the files in question. The files will be renamed and moved based
on their respective File and Folder patterns as defined by the catalog.  Ampache
will also by default sort your files into A\-Z sub\-folders to reduce the number
of folders at the top level. You can turn this off by editing the file and setting the
$alphabet_prefix to false, or commenting it out.

fix_filenames.inc

Ampache provides some additional tools to help you cope with Character set
mis\-matches. These scripts must be run from the command line. After making
any changes to your tags or the filenames please make sure you update your
catalog and that your local client has the character set and fonts required to 
display the tag information.  This script looks through the path of your local catalogs
for filenames who contain characters that do not exist in the currently configured
site_charset. It will prompt you for a source character charset, if none is
specified it will use the current output_encoding value from iconv().

print_tags.inc

You can also look at the raw tags inside a file by running the included
print_tags.inc file. This example takes advantage of the hexcat application to get
the hex values of the output. You will need to compare the reported HEX value to
the HEX value according to the defined charset.
.PP
php /bin/print_tags.inc [FILE]
.br
.PP
migrate_config.inc

This is used to migrate your ampache.cfg.php config file from php4 formating to php5
formating.  This is done to decrease the parsing time of ampache.cfg.php.  This is
generally not needed unless you are upgrading from 3.3.3.5 to 3.4.x.
debian/ampache.postinst runs this script automatically if needed.  

.SH "EXAMPLES"
php /usr/share/ampache/www/bin/update_catalog.inc\c
.br
php /usr/share/ampache/www/bin/print_tag.inc \ [path to music file]\c
.br
.SH "FILES"
/usr/share/ampache/www/bin

.SH "SEE ALSO"
/usr/share/doc/ampache/README.Debian.gz\c
.br
/usr/share/doc/ampache/README.gz\c
.br
http://ampache.org/wiki\c
.br
.SH "AUTHOR"
Ampache was written by Karl Vollmer <vollmer@ampache.org>\c
.PP
This manual page was written by Charlie Smotherman\c
.br
<cjsmo@cableone.net>, for the Debian project and Karl Vollmer.
